ENSv2 readiness guide (#486)
ensdomains/docs: src/pages/web/ensv2-readiness.mdx

# Preparing for ENSv2 [Everything you need to know to prepare your application for ENSv2.]

ENSv2 brings multi-chain support and improved architecture to ENS. While names can still be stored on Ethereum Mainnet, ENSv2 introduces Namechain as the primary Layer 2 for ENS, with support for additional L2s as well. To ensure your application works seamlessly with ENSv2, you'll need to make a few key updates.

The good news? For most applications, preparing for ENSv2 is as simple as updating to the latest version of a [supported library](/web/libraries). At the time of writing, not all libraries have added ENSv2 support yet. Here's the current status:

- [viem >= v2.35.0](https://github.com/wevm/viem/blob/main/src/CHANGELOG.md#2350)
- ethers.js: Not published yet. [Work in progress on v6.16.0](https://github.com/ethers-io/ethers.js/tree/wip-v6.16.0-ens)
- web3.js: Deprecated

:::info
**Using a supported library? You're done!** Everything is handled automatically.

The sections below are optional reading for those who want to understand the technical details or test their integration manually.
:::

## Universal Resolver

> Even though ENSv2 is designed for multi-chain, all resolution still starts on Ethereum Mainnet. There is a [new Universal Resolver](https://eth.blockscout.com/address/0xeEeEEEeE14D718C2B47D9923Deab1335E144EeEe) that acts as the canonical entry point. This is an upgradable proxy contract, so its address won't change in the future if its implementation is changed.

Reviewer: I think we should link to our docs page on the UR instead of deployed contract http://docs.ens.domains/resolvers/universal

Reviewer: Maybe also worth calling out the the proxy is owned by ENS DAO

## DNS Names and Name Detection

ENS supports importing DNS names into ENS, allowing legacy domain names to work alongside .eth names. It's important that your application correctly also detects DNS names.

### Common Mistake: Only Matching .eth

Many integrations check if the input ends with `.eth` in order to detect an ENS name:

```js
if (input.endsWith('.eth') {
  // ...
}
```

This is **incorrect** because it excludes DNS names imported into ENS (like `ensfairy.xyz`).

### Correct Pattern: Match All Valid Domains

Instead, your integration should treat any dot-separated string as a potential ENS name. For example, `a.co` should be treated as a potential ENS name.

```js
if (input.includes('.') && input.length > 2) {
   // ...
}
```

This pattern correctly matches:

- `.eth` names like `vitalik.eth`
- DNS names like `ensfairy.xyz`
- Subdomains like `ses.fkey.id`
- Emoji domains like `🦇️🔊️🦇️🔊️🦇️🔊️.eth`

Learn more about [DNS integration here](/learn/dns). The full specification of name normalization is defined in [ENSIP-15](/ensip/15).

## Multichain Considerations

> Even if your application only operates on an L2 like Base, ENS resolution always starts on Ethereum Mainnet. This means you need to configure a Mainnet client alongside your L2 chain.

Reviewer: Here and below I think we should say "Ethereum Mainnet" or "L1" to be extra clear. Because Base can also be considered Base Mainnet vs Base Sepolia for example.

# Preparing for ENSv2 [Everything you need to know to prepare your application for ENSv2.]

ENSv2 brings multi-chain support and improved architecture to ENS. While names can still be stored on Ethereum Mainnet, ENSv2 introduces Namechain as the primary Layer 2 for ENS, with support for additional L2s as well. To ensure your application works seamlessly with ENSv2, you'll need to make a few key updates.

The good news? For most applications, preparing for ENSv2 is as simple as updating to the latest version of a [supported library](/web/libraries). At the time of writing, not all libraries have added ENSv2 support yet. Here's the current status:

- [viem >= v2.35.0](https://github.com/wevm/viem/blob/main/src/CHANGELOG.md#2350)
- ethers.js: Not published yet. [Work in progress on v6.16.0](https://github.com/ethers-io/ethers.js/tree/wip-v6.16.0-ens)
- web3.js: Deprecated

If you're using a supported library, it should handle everything automatically. The sections below explain what's happening under the hood and how to test that your integration is working correctly:

## Universal Resolver

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The [Universal Resolver](/resolvers/universal) is a smart contract on Ethereum Mainnet that simplifies the process of resolving ENS names. It should be treated as the canonical entrypoint to all ENS queries.

```

> Even though ENSv2 supports multi-chain, all resolution starts on Ethereum Mainnet. ENS deployed a [new Universal Resolver](https://eth.blockscout.com/address/0xeEeEEEeE14D718C2B47D9923Deab1335E144EeEe) that acts as the canonical entry point. This resolver can be updated in the future if needed.

Author: My intention was to explain exactly this: That this is a proxy contract that will be updated (not redeployed) for ENSv2. Maybe this can be more explicit like:

"ENS deployed a [new Universal Resolver](https://eth.blockscout.com/address/0xeEeEEEeE14D718C2B47D9923Deab1335E144EeEe) that acts as the canonical entry point. This is a proxy contract, so this address won't change in the future if the implementation is changed."

> Your application needs to use this new Universal Resolver. As mentioned above, updating to the latest version of your library should handle this automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned above, updating to the latest version of your web3 library should handle this automatically.
```

Learn more about the [Universal Resolver here](/resolvers/universal) and about the [resolution process in general here](/resolution).

### Testing Universal Resolver Support

> To test if your integration uses the Universal Resolver, try resolving the address for `ur.gtest.eth`. It should return `0xEeeeeEeeeEeEeeEeEeEeeEEEeeeeEeeeeeeeEEeE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test if your integration uses the Universal Resolver, try resolving the address for `ur.gtest.eth`. It should return `0xEeeeeEeeeEeEeeEeEeEeeEEEeeeeEeeeeeeeEEeE`. If it instead returns `0x1111111111111111111111111111111111111111`, you likely need to update your web3 library.
```

## CCIP Read

ENSv1 already supports delegating resolution from Ethereum Mainnet to an L2 or completely offchain using [CCIP Read (ERC-3668)](/learn/ccip-read). All the libraries mentioned above implement CCIP Read. However, not all integrations handle it properly.

With ENSv2, you can store names on Ethereum Mainnet, Namechain, or any other supported L2. This makes CCIP Read support essential for your integration to work correctly.

Learn more about [CCIP-Read, Offchain and L2 resolvers here](/resolvers/ccip-read).

### Testing CCIP Read Support

To test if your integration properly implements CCIP Read, try resolving `test.offchaindemo.eth`. It should return the address `0x779981590E7Ccc0CFAe8040Ce7151324747cDb97`.

## DNS Resolution

ENS supports importing DNS names into ENS, allowing traditional domain names to work alongside .eth names. It's important that your application correctly also detects DNS names to avoid false positives.

### Common Mistake: Only Matching .eth

> Many integrations use a regex that only matches `.eth` domains:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many integrations only treat `.eth` domains as ENS names like this:
```

```regex
^[a-zA-Z0-9-]+\.eth$

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js
if (input.endsWith('.eth') {
  // ...
}
```
```

This is **incorrect** because it excludes DNS names imported into ENS (like `ensfairy.xyz`).

### Correct Pattern: Match All Valid Domains

Instead, your integration should match any valid domain name with a regex like this:

```regex
^(?:[\dA-Za-z-]+\.)+[A-Za-z]{2,}$
```

:::info

> The above regex is a simplification. An actual implementation is more complex. Use a library to detect an ENS name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that inputs should always be [normalized](/resolution/names).
```

## CCIP Read

ENSv1 already supports delegating resolution from Ethereum Mainnet to an L2 or completely offchain using [CCIP Read (ERC-3668)](/learn/ccip-read). All the libraries mentioned above implement CCIP Read. However, not all integrations handle it properly.

With ENSv2, you can store names on Ethereum Mainnet, Namechain, or any other supported L2. This makes CCIP Read support essential for your integration to work correctly.

Learn more about [CCIP-Read, Offchain and L2 resolvers here](/resolvers/ccip-read).

### Testing CCIP Read Support

To test if your integration properly implements CCIP Read, try resolving `test.offchaindemo.eth`. It should return the address `0x779981590E7Ccc0CFAe8040Ce7151324747cDb97`.

## DNS Resolution

ENS supports importing DNS names into ENS, allowing traditional domain names to work alongside .eth names. It's important that your application correctly also detects DNS names to avoid false positives.

> ### Common Mistake: Only Matching .eth

Author: Add some examples: emoji, ...
